Ben-Hur (1959) 3.5/4

This film truly lives up to the title of an epic.  Certain elements of the film are too "obvious" from a religious standpoint - as one critic put it, the film can feel like "a four hour Sunday school lesson."  Furthermore, some scenes, like the chariot scene, are magnificent but too drawn out.  The film could be faster than it is and still carry the same weight.

But while I do feel that many moments in the film are too religiously overt, this film also succeeds impressively in capturing the human aspect of religion.  In the character of Judah, this film accurately depicts the eternal conflict between human cynicism and divine hope.  The stirring dialogue towards the end of the film between Judah, who has lost all will, and Esther, who has gained all hope, should strike a chord in any person who has experienced this battle within himself.

Overall, this film sometimes tries too hard.  But within the grand landscape of the epic, there is also riveting human struggle that is deeply complex yet completely familiar.  For that reason, I highly recommend it.

To Catch a Thief (1955) 3.5/4

This Hitchcock film is a slight deviation from the normal Hitchcockian style.  Although the plot gives every indication of being standard romance-thriller fare, this film is, first and foremost, a comedy.  I found it a very fun watch.

Cary Grant plays the role that he is most suited for: a relatively normal man placed into somewhat extreme circumstance.  Grace Kelly is as charming as she is in every role, but also more headstrong compared to other roles like Rear Window and Dial M For Murder where she is somewhat more "innocent."  This added dimension was a pleasant surprise, and she was brilliant.  

The writing is hilarious; one of my favorite characters was Jessie Royce Landis, who has many wonderful comedic moments. 

Many critics panned this for failing to meet the thrill of other Hitchcock films - I believe they have completely missed the point.  I think this is a well-done foray into more comedic material, and it is a thoroughly entertaining watch in which Hitchcock brings out the best of his actors.

Dallas Buyers Club (2013) 3/4

This film tells an impressive and unique story.  I particularly enjoyed the development of the friendship that grows between McConaughey and Leto: this rather touching arc was written perfectly without undue sentiment.  

Viewing McConaughey's character was uncomfortable at times, and I believe this is due to the slightly disjointed presentation of his character.  The shift from an erratic, homophobic, loud, "white trash" kind of a man to a suave, friendly, heroic Texan was too sudden to be believable.  Even if this premise of transformation was the intent of the filmmakers, its execution left me confused as to what to make of this character.  On a related note, the growing friendship between Garner and McConaughey in the film was not believable, for much of the same reasons.  

I also didn't like the "bad guy" treatment of the hospital doctors and the FDA.  While this may have been helpful in constructing the overall narrative, it was both unnecessary and possibly untrue to the real story.  

Overall, this film has certain flaws but is ultimately a very solid treatment of a rather complex and interesting story.  

Cinema Paradiso (1988) 3.5/4

This film is deeply touching.  No distinguishable flaws.
